what powerful singing we began marching into war with King Alfred's battle hymn, and we ended in the fury of the storm, trusting the sweet, sustaining grace of Christ, and then everything in between.
If you hold your Bible open to 2 Corinthians chapter 10, we come this morning to the next passage that we will take together, verses 7 through 11.
Authority.
Authority is a word for many that is a very yucky word.
This is a word that gives instant backlash.
We hear the word authority, and if we're not careful, we will instantly begin to stiffen our spines a bit.
We'll begin to activate our defenses a bit.
By and large, in a fallen world, we do not like authority unless we are in authority.
And I believe that that is for one major reason with two underlying implications.
Generally speaking, we do not like authority and the reason is sin, sin.
First of all, we are sinners and we naturally repel against any authority but our own because we want to be in authority, a problem that goes all the way back to the garden.
But secondly, not only are we sinners, but other people are sinners too.
So we see the gross misuse of authority in the lives of other people that should be wielding it rightly.
And so it makes us rightly so squeamish about submitting to authority when we see how it's misused.
And certainly we have experienced this in the government and in the healthcare system through
2020 and COVID in the years that follow as well as many other places in our life.
If you grew up in what was truly an abusive home, you may have seen this misuse of authority in the worst of ways and maybe in an unhealthy church, maybe in an unhealthy work environment.
There are extraordinary times when authority
is grossly misused and when it must be disregarded, if not even opposed, and yet even then, as much as possible, we're long suffering with a default position to yield ourselves under authority, so long as we can.
God created authority.
God has authority.
God delegates authority.
in and of itself as a good and godly thing by the ultimate authority of God himself.
And God gives us instructions, and not only instructions, but examples of how authority is to be used.
The truth is every single one of us, children included, are not only under authority, and we all are under authority in one way or another.
Every single one of us
also are in authority, and one way or another.
Take the smallest child, a little girl with her dolls, a little boy with his dump trucks, their room, and even the smallest child has some sense of the exercise of authority, and some obviously more than others.
And when that authority is exercised according to the authority of God,
the intent is for the good and flourishing of those who are under it.
Webster's 1828 dictionary defines authority simply this way.
It's a right to command our act.
Jesus himself was asked in Matthew 21, by what authority do you do these things?
And he answered with a great commission in Matthew 28 by saying, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
Jesus said,
In 2 Corinthians chapter 10, we see the proper use of authority.
The title of today's sermon is for building up and not tearing down.
And the interesting thing about today's sermon is that it is highly likely that every single person in this room will be hearing a sermon on 2 Corinthians chapter 10 verses seven through 11 for the first time in their entire life.
When was the last time you heard a sermon exclusively devoted to these verses?
And let's just be honest, there's a good chance that this will be the last time in your life that you hear a sermon exclusively devoted to these verses.
Unless you have been just reading and studying through the Bible, expositionally in a Bible study or listening to a sermon series,
These are very glossed over passages by which even the greatest of expositors just lump them into a larger section and then completely overlook them.
And I believe that we find in the most unsuspecting of places, and God's holy word, the greatest of treasures.
And this before us is one of those chests.
I want you to back up just a little bit in your Bibles.
What you have here is granddaddy Paul, their father in the faith personally and passionately coming to them, urging this church that he has preached the gospel to and has helped formed from the very beginning.
If you look with me in your Bible, then 2 Corinthians 10 in the opening verses, we saw last week that he's coming to them with a meekness and gentleness of Christ.
We read earlier in 2 Samuel 22, where
It was sung.
It was recited that it was your gentleness, Lord, that made me great.
And so Paul comes to them with the weakness and gentleness of Christ.
What we see in Paul's life is that there are times when he comes to the church, when he comes to the authorities assertively and he's acting like a lion with authority, he's bringing down the hammer and he's
not only bring in a rod, but he's disciplining his children in love.
But other circumstances, such as the one before us, present a picture where Paul is very patient, very gentle, graciously showing forth humility and love and pleading, probably through tears.
The backdrop to what is before us
clearly is adversaries in Paul's life who are casting him as weak and as dishonorable.
We know in 1 Corinthians 9 that because he refused full-time support from the church, they talked as if Paul was illegitimate as a minister.
We'll see this morning that it was his lack of eloquent speech referenced again in chapter 11 verse 6 that
they used to undermine his credibility.
And supposedly he did not bring the right letters of commendation in chapter three, verse one.
Possibly he was accused in verse chapter 12 of not bringing mighty works.
And then we'll see Lord willing in chapter 12 where they possibly undermine him for not having visions which Paul will address.
So Paul is coming to this church for a third visit.
And we saw last week that he's coming to a very arrogant people by and large, and he comes to see not their talk, but their power.
Because Paul said in 1 Corinthians that the kingdom of God does not consist of tall, but the demonstration of power and authority.
And he's pleading with them in this section of Corinthians to humble their hearts.
He does not want to have to come to them boldly to confront them, but he will.
And yet he takes no joy in doing that, just as no one should look forward to confrontation.
And Paul certainly does not, but he's ready to bring it when it's necessary.
So it's this boldness, it's this confidence that we see referenced here that Paul plans to show those who are accusing him of walking according to the flesh.
He says in chapter 10 of undermining his ministry.
And when he returns, he will discipline them
with severity if there is not repentance.
So all throughout Second Corinthians, Paul has put in the most uncomfortable position of having to defend his own calling and his own credibility, which is something no sane wants to do because Proverbs says, let another man speak well of you and not yourself.
But it's this apostolic authority that is
that is grounding his faithful ministry, which their salvation and their sanctification are pivoting on.
So they need to receive Paul because of the ministry of God that he brings.
Instead, the church is being confused by the smear campaign that's being brought against him.
So what you see in the life of Jesus is what you tend to see, I believe, in the life of Paul, where the heart is very hard, you bring the hammer of God's law,
and the demands of God's law to humble it.
And where the heart is humble, you show tenderness and grace to build it back up in truth.
Look with me in verse four, we saw last week where Paul asserts that our weapons are divinely powerful, they're mighty.
The Bible says to destroy strongholds or fortresses.
These are spiritual weaponry that God has given us that far exceed that of any earthly weapon, any
any human apparatus.
And Paul says God has made this freely ours.
He says through Alcaridians that he may have come to them in weakness.
He may have come to them in simplicity, but Paul is armed with the power of God.
He has the gravitas of God on his life.
And in his way, what you see as a result of his ministry is a trail of transformed lives who have submitted themselves and been changed by the power of God.
Jeremiah chapter 1, 10, possibly being referenced in the background as Paul writes this, speaks of the Lord's word coming through his servant, both to destroy and overthrow as well as to build and to plan.
And there is a major building project before us.
Look with me in verse five, we saw the call to capture every worldly ideology, every personal soul that sets itself up against the knowledge of God.
And I mentioned, and I want to make the point again, I really do believe by and large that the Christian life is one or lost in the mind.
The things that we allow to enter our mind and then live there rent free.
And Paul says anything that sets itself up against the knowledge and fear of God in prison and take it captive, make it a prisoner or war and say you are not welcome here and don't entertain it, treat it like an enemy, an enemy of God.
Repent of it, refuse to entertain that error, turn our thoughts to the obedience of Christ, replace them with truth and with obedience.
And this is a problem that goes all the way back to the garden, doubting God's word, did God really say?
And it's lingering all throughout 2 Corinthians and in your life and mind today.
Look with me in verse six, because we cut it short last week.
Paul comes back now with very strong language.
He says, being ready.
The word for ready is a term used of military preparedness.
It speaks of that, which is tactical and strategic.
being ready to punish every disobedience.
Paul is ready to come and punish every disobedience, likely every defiance against his faithful ministry and what he is putting forth in this letter of 2 Corinthians, not to mention 1 Corinthians.
How would Paul punish every disobedience?
He doesn't say, but when we read other parts of the New Testament, clearly that would invoke church discipline.
He would expose their true colors publicly before the church in a situation like this one and then he would bring needed discipline to the saints and he would call on them to repent and he would rebuke everywhere needed and he would drive out the wolves without a second thought.
But look with me in verse six, he says, when you're, I believe speaking to the saints in the church that are confused,
When your obedience, likely your obedience to all that he's writing right here in 2 Corinthians, it's complete.
Or the King James says, fulfilled, fulfilled.
He says in 2 Corinthians 2, 9 that he wrote to them because he's testing them to see if they would be obedient in everything, which is the story of our lives.
At Titus in 2 Corinthians 7 is recalling the obedience of them
All, not just that they would be here, but doers of the word in every way.
So writing to this confused church, now Paul seems to long for the saints' obedience and he's patient enough to anticipate the true colors of the false teachers to come to light.
I love how one pastor summarized this verse.
Listen, he said, the competent soldier understands the crucial importance of timing.
Rather than fire blindly and risk killing friendly troops, he waits until the enemy is clearly in sight.
Paul had the courage and the competence to punish all disobedience in Corinth.
He would not allow the purveyors of error to destroy the church, but he also had the discipline to wait until the church's obedience was complete.
Paul would not unleash his formidable apostolic power on anyone until each had taken his stand.
That way, he would be clear who accepted the truth and who rejected it.
Paul would be compassionate to the former, but to the latter would find him to be a courageous and highly competent opponent.
And so that sets the stage as we begin to ease in to verses 7 through 11, where I want you to see in the passage before us five aspects of authority that Paul displays in the church.
First of all, we see in verse seven, authority that is secure in Christ and not selfish and motive.
In verse eight, we see authority that is assertive and not arrogant.
In verse eight, the latter part, we see authority that builds up and doesn't tear down.
In verses nine through 10, I want you to see authority that puts terror in your enemies and loving respect in your people.
And fifthly, authority that is spoken and acted upon in verse 11.
I want you to walk with me, first of all, in verse seven, where we see authority that is secure and not selfish in motive.
Look in verse seven, Paul just puts it right out there in this passionate appeal.
Look at what is before your eyes.
Now scholars are conflicted.
This could be an indicative, which refers to what they're doing.
They're looking at is what is before their eyes.
And Paul could be saying, look rightly at what is truly before your eyes.
Look at what is so plain before you that you need to see it, but obviously miss.
It could be an interrogative.
This also could be a question.
Are you looking merely at what is before your own earthly eyes?
Or maybe it's an imperative, as it is represented in the ESV, you need, you must look at what is before your eyes.
Paul might be referring to 1 Samuel 16, seven, when Samuel was told by the Lord, when you go to choose the king of Israel, do not look merely at earthly outward appearances.
Don't just look at height, don't just look at stature.
Don't just look for a man who has sculpted like a Greek God.
But what I want you to do is look at heart, look at character, look at inner fortitude, look and see if this man is anchored in his convictions to God.
And so that could be what Paul is saying here.
Either way, John 724 says, do not judge by appearances.
but judge with right judgment.
How many times have you heard the verse from unbelievers who've read no other verse in the Bible?
Judge not, judge not.
And yet the Bible says, no, you mechanic must judge, but don't just judge a book by its color or it's covered judge with a righteous judgment.
Judge with a righteous judgment.
So most likely, Paul here in verse seven,
seems to be calling on the church to look at what's plainly before them as God sees it.
They're making such claims.
What about us?
Look in verse seven, if anyone is confident that he is Christ, let him remind himself that just as he is Christ, so also are we.
These false teachers, like all false teachers, tend to be our boasting of some special relationship to Jesus Christ.
Maybe they've had visions, maybe they've had
some sort of insider knowledge.
Maybe they're boasting of some Hyattistic communion with Christ.
That would far outweigh what Paul could claim.
And they're confident that they're Christ and they have this special relation to him.
And yet Paul says, remind yourself that even as they claim that, wrongly so, remember that we do all the more, claim the same thing.
1 Corinthians 9, 1, Paul says that he is an apostle because he's seen the risen Lord Jesus with his own eyes.
Galatians 1, 12, Paul says, I didn't learn from men.
I learned directly from Jesus Christ himself who appointed me as an apostle.
So he mentions this confidence and Paul mentions confidence often in 2 Corinthians.
boastful confidence, the confidence of his new covenant ministry, the confidence he says in chapter three, verse four, that was extended towards God through Christ.
And yet there's a wrong founded confidence in his adversaries who are winning the hearts and affections of the church.
In first Corinthians 14, Paul,
calls on the church to acknowledge his writings as God's command.
And first John 4, 6, he says, we are from God.
And just as Jesus is sheep, here is voice.
So his followers will listen to his word.
First Corinthians 3, 23 says, and you are Christ and Christ is God.
And so Paul says, we belong to Christ.
We were divinely charged.
And so we saints, we
We are in Christ and we belong to Christ.
So humble yourself before his word, before faithful ministry, authority that is securing Christ and not selfish and motive as we see in the false teachers.
Look at me.
Secondly, in verse eight, we move now to another truth about authority in this passage, authorities, which Paul
uses authority that is assertive and not arrogant, assertive and not arrogant.
He writes in verse 8, for even if I boast a little too much, or it could read, even if I boast somewhat more, i.e.
than the false teachers of our authority, he goes on and he says, I will not be ashamed.
Over and over, Paul uses this word boast in first and second Corinthians.
Sometimes he uses it in the same way we think of it in a negative light.
He uses it as those who are full of themselves.
But other times Paul uses this word for boast in a positive way, as if boasting in the church, which is filled with the evidence of Christ, their lives exalting Christ.
And Paul takes great pride in that.
So if you'll look with me in verse eight, he says, even if I boast a little too much or somewhat more, there's a bashfulness.
about boasting in his authority.
And listen, anyone who walks around beating their chest, wanting everyone to know how much authority they have must first realize that they don't have the authority that they think they have, if they have to constantly remind people of it.
And so there's a humility.
There's a, there's a vastfulness about this where Paul is not wanting to assert himself, not wanting to remind them of who he is.
And yet at the same time, he says, I can boast all the more than they do.
And I would still not boast too much.
That's the extent of authority that Paul has been given by God.
And he concludes, I will not be ashamed to use it.
I will not be ashamed to use it because it was given to him by God and he is using it not in a heavy handed way, but to build them up.
And Paul always uses this authority when we see the gospel or when we see the integrity of the church at stake, you see a different side of him as a true and faithful shepherd.
In verses 13, as well as in 15, if you'll look down, Paul says that he will not boast beyond limit.
He will not extend himself beyond what he should.
And so he's not ashamed.
Maybe embarrassed to go beyond it.
Maybe careful to be over heavy handed, but certainly not ashamed to rightly wield it.
2 Corinthians 12, 7 says that God had sent Paul a messenger from hell to keep him from becoming conceited in his boasting.
And doesn't the Lord do that in our lives?
A thorn to keep us humbled before him.
As I mentioned earlier, authority rightly assumed and used is a good and godly thing and it is not something to be ashamed of or repulsed by in God's good design.
So what we see in Paul's life right here is that God has entrusted him both with authority and with responsibility.
Now the problem oftentimes in the modern world
whether it be in the family, whether it be in the church, whether it be in the workplace with masters and servants, or whether it be even in the community, civil sphere.
A major problem that we have that Paul, I believe, at least in part, is cutting against is when you have a person that's given responsibility for a job, but they're not given the authority to carry out that job.
And Paul has both and he is explaining both the authority that he has that he's not ashamed of and the responsibility to wield it, to build them up rightly.
What you often find in our world today is maybe a pastor who's given a responsibility to shepherd, but not the authority of making and enforcing decisions.
You see a man who's given responsibility to rule his house, but he's neutered of the authority to actually do it.
You see, you see pseudo-parents who are giving children to take care of, and the responsibility to shepherd and care for those children, but they don't actually have the authority to parent those children, which is a real problem with modern daycares, and anyone who's worked in them knows that is the case.
A person who's given responsibility in their workplace or at their office, but they're not given the authority needed to actually carry it out in a meaningful way.
Friends, the most basic principle of authority in life is this.
Authority flows to those who take responsibility.
And Paul is taking responsibility for this flaw in the dirtiest and messiest of ways
And then increasingly, we see that both stole on his shoulders authority to execute that responsibility.
You see what we see flavors of throughout second Corinthians is that the lowest level of leadership is leadership by title.
In other words, he's the expert.
He has the credentials.
He is so and so, so you need to do what he says.
And Paul says, do I have to present letters of recommendation?
Do I have to present?
credentials and criteria to you.
The highest level of leadership is not by title.
It's by character and it's by respect.
I trust you.
I see the example of your life.
I will submit to you even when I disagree with you and don't want to do what you say.
And Paul is pleading to them in this way as a father who's invested his life into them.
refusing to be heavy-handed, but not afraid to wield authority.
Look with me at number three at the responsibility of it.
Number three, authority that builds up and doesn't tear down.
If you look in that center section that we're all over in chapter 10 verse eight, Paul gives this marvelous statement.
He says, our authority speaking of him and his co-labors are maybe just kind of
an embarrassing way of just referring to himself with that plural, which the Lord gave for building you up or for edification and not for destroying you, for building you up and not for destroying you.
This is authority that's assertive, even aggressive, but it is not arrogant.
It is not self-seeking.
It is not self-promoting.
Turn with me in your Bibles to one of the most overlooked books in the New Testament, 3rd John, 3rd John.
In 3rd John, we see an example of the exact opposite of this.
And I believe very likely a reflection of what Paul is combating and speaking against.
when we put all of the pieces together, third John.
Turn with me in your Bibles to third John chapter two, chapter two.
Just making sure we're following.
There's not a chapter two is there.
And yet you're with me and you're proving it.
In third John, we see what could be called the disease of
diatrophies.
Look with me in verses nine and 10.
I have written something to the church, but diatrophies.
And the only thing that we know about this man, the banner over his life and the way that he goes down and the annals of history and the best-selling book of all time and God's inspired word is like this.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the phrase that you don't want engraved on your tombstone.
But diatrophies, who likes to put himself, what?
First, does not acknowledge our, what?
Authority.
So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us.
and not contend with that.
He refuses to welcome the brothers good and faithful saints.
And he also stops those who wants, who want to and puts them out of the church.
Welcome to the man, the disease of diatrophies who'd love to put himself first.
And the implication is that he would walk over everyone around him in order to be first tearing down and destroying
the Lord knows who so that he could be at the top.
If you look back with me in second Corinthians chapter 10 verse eight, Paul is not our first and foremost to destroy these false teachers.
He uses this word destroy already in verse five.
We are destroying arguments.
He's not trying to promote endless argumentation and speculations.
He's not even trying to destroy them them.
He's trying to destroy the erroneous arguments that are against the knowledge of God.
He seeks to destroy, he says in 1 Corinthians 1, 19, the wisdom of the so-called wise.
But don't forget that we did see in 1 Corinthians 3, 17, where the Bible says, if anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him.
It is a warning and it is a threat and it is not an empty threat.
It is a promise.
If you seek to destroy the church of God, God will destroy you.
God will destroy you.
And if you want evidence of that, look at 1 Corinthians 10, 9 and 10, where God destroyed the rebels in the Old Testament who came against him and his anointed.
His pure and sweet and true people of God and God destroyed them.
And the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 15 that Christ will destroy every rule and every authority raised against himself, including Satan and including death.
Paul said that he was struck down, but he was not destroyed.
One day our bodies will be destroyed.
He says, but we will be raised again in glory.
He had an authority from God, but he was not intended to destroy the church.
Now, sometimes there are things in the church that must be destroyed so that it can be built up.
But all of the authority God gave him, if you look with me in your Bible, in verse eight was given to him for building up the church.
There are so many today.
And certainly the church can be rightly critiqued in many ways, but all they want to do is tear down the church.
Solutions, I have no solutions, but I'll point out all the problems and burn everything down.
And Paul said, we address problems, but the point is to build up something in its way.
I do not want my one and only life to be only known for all of the things I tore down.
I want my God's grace to build up a godly family.
a godly church, godly communities and institutions in every way where we can.
This is what we see, promised of Jesus in Matthew 16, on Peter's confession, that Jesus is the Christ.
Jesus said, I will what?
Build my church and the gates of hell, even in 2 Corinthians, even in 21st century America, will not overcome it.
And Jesus is building his church.
Earlier in Corinthians, he refers to the church as God's building, and as his ministers, and all of his saints is participating as construction workers in the process.
Under Jesus and working with him, the Bible says we are seeking to build up the church.
So much so, in 1 Corinthians 14, the church seems to be enamored with displays of the Holy Spirit.
Speaking in tongues and prophecy,
and the gifts of healing.
And Paul says, listen, you're obsessed with these miraculous displays of the Holy Spirit.
Since you are, let me give you the first and foremost of all of them.
You want to be eager for the display of the Holy Spirit, excel in doing everything you do to build up the church.
And so Paul is clear about his motives.
He says in chapter one verse 24,
We don't lord it over your faith.
We're working together with you for your joy.
Brothers and sisters, I charge you as I'm charged myself seek to build one another all.
This world does a mighty fine job of seeking to tear us down and destroy us.
because they hate us, because they hate the glory of God within us, they hate everything that stands for.
And all of this truth and conviction, this is the place where we come to build one another up.
Now that doesn't mean flatter one another.
And sometimes there are some strong truths to be shared in a sweet way of edification of truth and love.
But the point is, I love you.
I am not trying to hurt you.
I am trying to heal and edify you.
In Jeremiah 24 six, we see something very similar.
I will set my eyes on them for good.
God says, I will bring them back to this land.
I will build them up and not tear them down.
Certainly got exiled them.
Certainly got disciplined them.
But the point was to rebuild them.
I will plant them and not pluck them up.
So many today want to use their authority to crush.
are to manipulate or to put themselves forward or to use those under them and God indict such in Ezekiel 34, the shepherds who fleece themselves at the sake of the flock.
We see this reference in the home.
Proverbs 14, one, listen to me, the lady says, the wisest of women builds her house, but folly with her own hands,
tears it down.
In the church Psalm 102, Psalm 147, the Lord builds up Zion.
He gathers the outcast of his people.
We see it in the civil sphere.
Listen to Proverbs 29, 4, by justice, a king builds up the land, but he who exacts gifts are meaning he taxes heavily tears it down.
When the righteous rule the people, they rejoice.
But when the wicked rule, the people roam, they suffer.
God gives this authority within each of the spheres that he's ordained.
We see it in the home where husbands are to rule their homes, mothers to train their children and they're given the rod over their children to lovingly enact.
that authority.
We see it in the church to preach the word, to administer the ordinances in discipline, and then church discipline is given over the members.
We see it in Ephesians 6 among masters and servants.
Masters are to rule wisely and benevolently.
And then they hold the livelihood of their servants in their hands and they're to do so soberly because they'll be judged by God.
And certainly we see this
in the civil sphere.
Romans 13 says, the civil government is to protect what's good and punish what is evil.
And they're given the sword over citizens.
Certainly a terrifying thing in our day.
And so at each of these, we see then a governor on the use of that authority.
The husbands are not to be harsh with their wives.
Parents are not to provoke their children to anger.
Pastors are not to abuse or mislead their churches.
The magistrates are to be disobeyed when tyrannical.
God threatens masters.
If you defraud your laborers, I will come and judge you from heaven.
I want to turn back with me to a pivotal passage that I believe is in the background as music to everything we see in 2 Corinthians.
2 Samuel, chapter 23.
We read this earlier, and I want you to see just two verses that we've made reference to before.
David is on his deathbed.
He's giving his last words.
And in doing so, he gives the most beautiful picture of a shepherd who had willed authority.
I believe being exemplified in Paul's life in 2 Corinthians 10.
2 Samuel 23 verse 2, I'll give you a moment to turn there.
This is the intent.
This is the motivation.
This is what we want to see.
He says in 2 Samuel, 2032, when one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God, and even each of us who have authority, we better be careful to wield it in the fear of God.
The intended effect of the use of that authority is pictured.
In verse four, he dawns on them, picture this like the morning light.
He dawns on them like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning.
You see it piercing through, promising hopefulness for the day.
He dawns on them like rain.
that makes grass to sprout from the earth.
Everything under that authority is intended to grow and flourish and produce what is true and good and beautiful.
I believe that is exactly what Paul is saying to the saints and second Corinthians.
This is what Godly rule is intended to produce within those who are under it.
The rod and the staff, we see exemplified in Jesus's life and pulse.
And by the way, go ahead and get your pin ready because you're going to want to mark this down.
The rod and the staff are intended to beat down the wolves and build up the sheet.
That's the use of it.
Beat down the wolves and build up the sheet.
And the task of life,
Not just for a pastor, for everyone, is not to confuse the two.
Not to confuse the two.
Listen to me.
Sometimes hurting sheep look like wolves.
And always wolves look like sheep.
And it takes the discernment of the entire letter of 2 Corinthians
with first Corinthians and all of the Bible to learn rightly to diagnose between the two, which is why I believe Paul says in verse six that I'm going to come and punish every disobedience, but I'm going to wait until your obedience is complete, until your obedience is complete.
Both meek and gentle while at the same time firm and fearful.
What happens is we tend to overestimate, overemphasize one side of that coin when we see the other side emphasize too much, but the truth is both are important and both have their proper place, make and gentle firm and fearful.
And this is why we need older, seasoned, battle tested men and women in the church
who can help invest in the younger and show when each is properly needed.
Number four.
Number four, I want you to see next in verse nine and 10, authority that puts terror in your enemies and loving respect in your people.
This is what the proper use of authority
Particularly in the church does, it puts terror in your enemies and it puts loving respect in your people.
We were talking about this last night and I was asking my dad, hey, what are some lessons that you've learned in your life and career as it pertains to this topic and this text and Ted said this and I quote, first of all, young men need to realize this.
You have to learn to take orders before you can give orders.
You've got to learn to take orders before you can give them.
And this is what we see, but I want you to see first what Paul's accused of in verse nine.
I do not want to appear to frighten you or to be frightening you with my letters.
I'm not trying to scare the she.
For they say speaking of his adversaries, his letters are weighty and strong.
He writes a big game.
He is bold behind a keyboard.
but his bodily presence is weak and his speech of no account.
If you look back in verse 1, Paul references what they say that he's humble or lowly when he's with him in person, but when he's hiding behind his letters, oh, he's bold, but let him crawl out behind those text messages
And there's anonymous Facebook accounts and social media galore and getting face to face and he's a coward.
Paul says, I'm not a coward.
He says, I come to you with meekness and gentleness pleading with you.
And he's speaking to those who both challenge his authority and be little, his adequacy.
They're accusing him, look with me in verse 10.
First of all, that is bodily presence this week.
Here's the ironic thing throughout First and Second Corinthians.
When your adversaries accuse you of something, what is our default setting to completely defend ourselves from all accusations?
But you know what Paul does throughout these letters?
He says, you tell me that I am weak in my presence and the truth is I actually agree with you.
Listen to me, look at me.
What kind of man is so secure in Jesus Christ that he can actually agree with his adversaries about his own weaknesses and not succumb in insecurity and fear?
That is a man securing Christ as we've already seen.
We are Christ, he says.
And Paul says over and over, I didn't come to you.
with some strong bodily presence, with some strong persona.
I actually boast in my weakness.
I am content in my weakness, my suffering for Christ, because it's in my weakness that Christ has displayed as strong.
So I agree with you in part, in part.
You say his bodily presence, what did Paul look like?
We had fun with this in our family worship last night.
Now, Paul is not reported, as I mentioned earlier, to be sculpted like some Greek god, like we might envision.
One early writer, though this is not scripture, but one early historian describes Paul this way.
By the way, if you've never heard this, this is fixing to train wreck some of your paradigms.
One says he was a man of small stature.
with a bald head and crooked legs.
Are we doing okay?
And a good state of body with eyebrows needing a short, stumpy man with crooked legs and to top it all off are you telling me he had a unibrow?
Somebody give this man some tweezers.
What is going on here?
And I know someone hooked.
Now some historians would say this was how the Caesars of the day, the Greek gods would be pictured, the generals.
So it wasn't just Paul, nonetheless, full of friendliness.
For now he appeared like a man, and now he had the face of an angel.
So what did Paul's bodily presence look like?
Look with me in 2 Corinthians 11.
The man went through
went through the worst of hell on earth.
He was beaten in the instrument's life.
He was shipwrecked as sea.
He had a target on his back.
He would not surprise me if that in many ways this man was physically disfigured.
But you talk about a man with metal.
You talk about a man with gravitas.
You talk about a man with fortitude because he trusted in Christ.
I don't think the idea here is his physical presence.
I think it's his persona that he brings that they say is unimpressive of no account of no value, contemptible.
Look with me at the end of verse 10, they say that his speech is of no account.
In this day and age, they highly prize someone who could speak with charisma, layout, arguments,
and basically persuade anybody of anything.
The art of rhetoric was highly regarded and it was the way it was said more so than what was said that was regarded.
And Paul, a very learned man himself has been very clear telling the Corinthians, I don't come to you with the eloquence of today.
The charisma, the swagger,
of the day because I don't want your faith to rest in my eloquence and my personality, but in the power of God.
Now get eyeball to eyeball with me.
How many people do you know that have faith that does not rest in the power of God?
It rests in the personality of a man.
It rests in a particular preacher that they highly admire.
It rests in some wisdom speaker that can convince them of nearly everything.
And Paul says, I want your faith to be rooted in the power of God.
And so again, at least in part, he agrees with them.
I am not out to impress you, but to sanctify you.
And finally, number five,
Number five, authority that is spoken and acted upon.
How about second Corinthians 10 11 as your life verse?
Oh, I know you've thought about John 3 16.
Jeremiah 29 11 is on your coffee cup.
What about second Corinthians 10 11?
Let such a person, i.e.
a defiant rebellious person to the ways of God.
Understand that what we say by letter when absent, we do win present.
So they're accusing him of being all talk and no action.
And Paul is saying, I am not putting forth pretty platitudes.
I am not putting forth empty rhetoric or empty threats.
I will do and I will come and execute everything that I've said I will do.
Verse six, punishing all disobedience.
This is not empty threats and warnings.
What empty threats and warnings do when not acted upon is they only encourage further rebellion.
Did you make this mistake as a young parent?
Have you heard or said this one?
Looking at your child, I told you to put the candy bar on the counter.
And I'm going to count to 10.
And by the time I get to 10, I want to see the candy bar on the counter.
One, two, you get to eight and it's not there.
So what do you start doing?
Just let's all be honest, eight in a quarter, eight in a half.
And what you do by not acting on what you have promised,
And counting to 10 is you promote rebellion for nine seconds.
You can, what you are teaching your children is you can disobey me for nine seconds.
And I guarantee you I'll do nothing about it.
Now, if you do that in your parenting, I don't know about it and haven't noticed it, but I will tell them myself and say, I have done that and made the mistake and got the t-shirt.
And Paul says, listen, guys, I love you.
and I'm being patient in long suffering, and I'm not counting to 10.
I'm pleading with you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ.
Love him.
Give his word of highest value in your life.
Consider yourselves and do what needs to be done.
Five aspects of authority that Paul displays in the church, securing Christ and not selfish and motive.
builds up and doesn't tear down is assertive and not arrogant, puts terror in your enemies and loving respect in your people is spoken and acted upon.
And the point of this in every way, ultimately, is that we would gladly submit ourselves to the authority of Jesus Christ, not because we have to, but because we love His Lordship.
Listen to me church, there's a lot of things I don't know.
You've submitted a lot of questions through Ask Pastor Brandon and you're like, why hasn't he gotten to him?
And then I'm like, because I don't have time.
But the honest answer is, I don't know.
I don't know the answer.
Here's one thing I do now.
You can trust him.
You can trust him with your life.
You can trust him with your eternity.
Let's pray.
Father, we thank you.
but you're a good rule in our lives.
We love you and we want to be broad and loving relationship to you in every way.
So use us and assure us, strengthen and equip us in every needed way.
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.